Exercise 1: Start Clearly and Simply
Write what you'd like the machine learned model to do.
We want the machine learned model to:
The ML model predicts if you lend money to someone at the Lending Club to be stable and profitable.

Exercise 2: Your Ideal Outcome
Adding your ML model to your system should produce a desirable outcome. What is this outcome, independent of the model itself? Note that this outcome may be quite different from how you assess the model and its quality.
Our ideal outcome is:
Our ideal outcome is to propose a way to get stable high returns in the lending club.

Exercise 3: Your Success Metrics
Write down your metrics for success and failure with the ML system. The failure metrics are important, that is, how will you know whether the ML system has failed? Both the success and failure metrics should be phrased independently of evaluation metrics for the model. For example, don't talk about precision, recall, or AUC; talk about the anticipated outcomes, instead. Frequently these metrics will be tied to the ideal outcome you specified above.
Our success metrics are: 
The list of borrowers correctly predicted by the model.

Our key results (KR) for the success metrics are: 
Success means that 95% of borrowers with measured interest rates and repayment probabilities are repaying loans for six months.

Our ML model is deemed a failure if: 
This means that the information of the predicted lender is similar to or riskier than current heuristic methods.

Exercise 4: Your Output
Write the output that you want your ML model to produce.
The output from our ML model will be:
Predict numerical values

The output is defined as:
Probability of risk to give loan or of repayment

Exercise 5: Using the Output 
Write when your output must be obtained from the ML model, and how it is used in your product.
The output from the ML model will be made: 
When a new loan requester is added, it predicts the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the yield rate.

The outcome will be used for: 
The results will help determine the risk of the lender and determine the presence or absence of investment.

Exercise 6: Your Heuristics
Write how you would solve the problem if you didn't use ML. For example, what heuristics you might use.
If we didn't use ML, we would:
We can assume that the person who repaid in the past within the due date of the loan will repay the loan on time. 
We also assume that the probability of repayment is low if the loan is overdue or if it is charged off.

Exercise 7a: Your Problem, Formulated as an ML Problem
Write down or click on the checkbox for what you think is the best technical solution for your problem. Our problem is best framed as:
- Multi-class single-label classification

Exercise 7b: Cast your Problem as a Simpler Problem
When first starting out, simpler problem formulations are easier to reason about and implement. Take your given problem and state it as a binary classification or a unidimensional regression problem (or both).
Multi-class single-label classification, which predicts whether a borrower will be in one of three classes—{riskier, risk, low risk}

Exercise 8: Design your Data for the Model & Exercise 10: Easily Obtained Inputs
Write the data you want the ML model to use to make predictions.
Among the inputs you listed in Exercise 8, pick 1-3 inputs that are easy to obtain, and that you believe would produce a reasonable, initial outcome.

name,   credit state,   loan state,     assets,     ...,    Output(label)
John,   A,              late,           10,000,000  ...,    risk
Mark,   D,              charged off,    100,000     ...,    riskier
Josh,   B,              fully paid      10,000      ...,    low risk

Exercise 9: Where the Data Comes From
Write down where each input comes from. Assess how much work it will be to develop a data pipeline to construct each column for a row.
The lending club service provider can provide each input data. Since the data is already provided through the lenders' prior information, it does not take much time to develop a data pipeline. However, it will take time to consider the output calculations.
